Okay, welcome back everybody.
Today we're going to actually
use the Feynman path integral
to obtain a few very interesting
results and physical phenomena.
And in the first video today,
we're going to actually,
you'll have a very unexpected
surprisingly result.
Mainly, we're going to see
how the Newton Equation,
second Newton law of
classical physics appears in
the classical limit of Feynman
by Feynman path integral.
So more precisely what I'm going to do,
I'm going to start with the expression we
just discussed in the previous lecture.
Which tells us that the probability of
a quantum particle to go from
an initial point to find a point.
R sub f can be written as the sum or
actual value of a sum over
all classical trajectories which sort
of symbolically represents what we call
the path integral of this individual
quantum mechanical transition amplitude.
And each of these amplitudes is written
as the exponential of this constant i,
times the classic collection, and
divided by the Planck Constant.
And, surprisingly, what we're
going to see is that the familiar
Equations of motion of
the classical physics.
This Newton second law
appears as a result of taking
the classical limit of this expression.
And I'm going to formulate precisely
what I mean by the classical limit, but
at this stage let me just tell you that
The classical limit will imply suppressing
the essence of quantum mechanics
interference phenomenal
which are controlled by this
blank constant each bar.
Now, just as a side comment here
sort of historical comment.
Let me mention something about this
equation so of course this I expect,
all of you or
the majority of you to know this equation.
It's something we learn
sometimes in high school
which is the second Newton law which is
mass times acceleration of a classical
particle is equal to the sum of all
the forces acting on the particle.
So apparently,
if you read actually the original
scientific work by Newton, the first
version, the first addition of this,
Principia, was published back in 1687,
a long time ago.
So, we're not actually going to see
this equation in this modern form.
The closest correlation to what we
currently call Newton's Second Law
of Motion appeared in his original
work in the Falling Four.
A change in motion is proportional
to the mighty force impressed and
takes place along the straight line
in which the force is presses.
It probably requires some imagination to
connect this statement to this equation.
But, in any case obviously Newton
understood the basic principles
of classical mechanics.
He was the one who created it.
So, there's no question about that.
So, this comment I just wanted
to make to show you that.
Sometimes the regional discoveries will
vary strongly from their original form,
and become even though we still give
credit to people who were the first to put
them together, the final form may be quite
different from what they were envisioning,
and this is perfect because I'm now, going
back to the main subject of this video.
So now I'm going to actually
show you how mathematically this
all the and
well known Second Newton Laws appears from
this modern more sophisticated quantum
theory, similarly unrelated theory.
In order for me to show you how it
happens, I need to present mathematical
trick or method called Laplace's
methods or saddle-point approximation.
Which allows us to calculate
certain integrals that otherwise
cannot be calculated.
And this method as we'll see sort
propagates more complicated theories
including our ability to calculate
certain path integrals approximately.
Now we have seen already the Gaussian
integral which is an integral of
e to the minus x squared And
between minus infinity and plus infinity.
And we know the result is equal
to the square root of pi.
So of course what this integral is
is the area enclosed by this curve,
which is nothing but
the plot of this Gaussian function e,
-x squared, as a function of x.
Now of course, this function is special,
well, there's nothing very special about
this function, but it does appear
in many fields in math and physics.
And one property of this
function is that it decays very,
very fast when the argument
x becomes large.
Either they're very negative or
very positive.
Now, in general however if you want
to calculate the integral of let's
say from minus infinity to plus infinity,
or some other limits of a function,
e to the power, minus f(x), where f(x)
is relatively every few function.
There is no closed mathematical
expression, typically, for
recession integral.
But it turns out that if there is a small
parameter in the exponential, if this
function actually involves not just f(x)
but f(x) divided by some epsilon and
this epsilon is very small, then one,
in many cases, can simplify things.
And I will explain the logic
behind this simplification.
A particular example of
this function of a fact,
which is x squared plus one over x
squared, and so I want to integrate
the exponential of minus this function
from minus infinity plus infinity.
So, there's not closed analytical
expression for the integral of this word,
but it turns out that if indeed we have
this small parameter in the denominator,
of the exponential,
things can actually be simplified.
In order to see how it happens,
let me plot this function f of x.
And so if we do so,
we see that there is a minimum, but
of course due to the minus
sign in the exponential.
The smaller the f of x the larger
the exponential itself.
And vice versa, if f of x,
on the other hand, very large and
positive, either the the bar
minus f of x becomes negligible.
So if we now plot the function
f of x to one to integrate,
it's going to look approximately
like this, my artistic expression.
Of what it's going to look like, but
the point here is it is going to have
a maximum around where f(x) is minimal and
is going to have the stills
which become smaller and
smaller as f(x) becomes larger.
So, what we want to collect
the area influenced by this curve.
And so some area will come from the region
of this maximum summary account will
come from this [INAUDIBLE].
So, but S epsilon,
this parameter here becomes smaller and
smaller, we'll see when it's 0.1 or
something like that, so
then it implies that our exponential
[INAUDIBLE] either part one or
0.1 which means either part
10 of whatever the are and
so the will become less and less
relevant on the background of this peak.
So for instance, for a smaller epsilon,
let's say my f of x.
So for a smaller epsilon,
it's going to look like this.
So in some sense it's going to become
closer and closer to the Gaussian form.
So the reason for that.
Because if I spend my function,
f of x, in Taylor Series,
in the vicinity of this point,
f of x Equals 1.
So what I'm going to get,
is the first term
which is just the value
of my function f of f
= 1 + f prime(f) = 1 (x- 1) + f 2
primes divided by 2 (x- 1) squared.
But since this is the minimum of
my function, so the derivative,
the first derivative of my function
here vanishes, it becomes equal to 0.
And so the only terms sort of in the
leading order that matter are this guy and
the quadratical.
So essentially which means the integral
that I'm dealing with Gaussin.
And as I mentioned, we know how
to calculate Gaussian integrals.
So without going through the algebra,
let me just sort of present the results.
So here I first present sort
of a general result for
almost arbitrary function f(x).
And the first factor here comes
essentially from the just simply
calculating the value of this
exponential in the minimum point of f.
And the second true is the result
of integrating the Gaussian part,
much like this Gaussian integral.
So for the particular function, we
are not going to need this result at all.
So it was just an example.
But nevertheless, here is the answer.
Let me also mention another fact,
which I'm not going to prove it.
But, it's important for the following.
That even if we have
a slightly different integral.
When we have an exponential of i,
the measuring constant i,
over some small parameter and some f(x).
So this integral oftentimes too
can be simplified using this
very similar saddle-point
approximation which we just discussed.
And the reason for that is because e to
the power i f(x) can be written as a bunch
of cosines and sines.
And if epsilon becomes very small,
they become strong oscillating
functions which on the average give us 0,
if epsilon is small.
Because we have a plus, a positive part of
the cosine, negative part of the cosine,
and then in some sense, they balance each
other out and give on the average 0.
And there is a similar argument that you
can actually write the expression of this
integral in a very similar form and focus
only on the minimum of this function.
Now let me go back to quantum physics and
we're going to
see how the previous mathematical
discussion is going to become relevant.
Now, remember,
my motivation in the very beginning,
I said that I want to take the classical
limit of my quantum mechanical theory.
So what does it mean to
take a classical limit?
So let us recall that the most interesting
quantum phenomenon that we have in quantum
mechanics was actually discovered, implied
interference between different waves,
sort of describing wave
functions describing a particle.
So if we want to kill, in some sense,
the quantum mechanical effects,
we want to suppress
the interference phenomena.
Or we want to make the wave
length as small as possible.
So let's say if we have
a particle with a momentum p, so
the corresponding wave length is
going to be, per debroyles argument,
is going to be h borrower 2 pi p.
So if you want to set a lambda to 0,
that is to completely suppress
the interference effects of
the particle's actual wavelength,
we want to set, in some sense, h to 0.
So the Planck constant, which controls
the quantum effects, which is sort of
the essence of quantum mechanics, so
it should be set to 0 in order to take.
So now recall the expression for
the Feynman path integral.
So we see that in the quasi classical
limit, in the classical limit,
when h formally is taken to 0, the
function that we are actually a functional
better to say that we're integrating
becomes in some sense very similar to
the types of functions that
we saw in the previous slide.
With the h bar here,
the Planck constant being equivalent
in a sense to the parameter epsilon,
that control the applicability of
the saddle-point approximation.
And also in the full analogy with this
previous slide with this saddle-point
approximation, we can see that as
h becomes smaller and smaller so
we can only focus on the trajectories
in the vicinity of the trajectory for
which the action is minimal.
So basically the limit of h going to
0 therefore reproduces the principle
of least action, which is another sort
of cornerstone of classical physics.
Now I should comment here that of
course h bar, the Planck constant,
is a fundamental physics constant.
We cannot take it to 0.
We cannot take the limit
physically of h bar going to 0.
What it actually means when I'm saying
that h bar goes to 0 and this also you're
going to see in the textbooks on
quasi-classical approximation.
It means that we have essentially two
types of length scales in our problem.
One type of length scale is the wave
lengths of our quantum particles, and
the other type of length scales is
the typical length scales in our system.
And if the wave length of our quantum
particles are much more than everything
else, this effectively
means this limit and
this effectively means the applicability
of the quasi-classical approximations.
So for those of you familiar with
Lagrangian classical mechanics,
it should be clear now that principle of
least action all ready demands that we
essentially are going to
reproduce Newton's equations as
was advertised at
the beginning of the lecture.
So you can stop listening to the lecture
right here and move on to the next part.
But for the sake of completeness,
let me nevertheless present, or
remind you,
of how these equations would come about.
So again, the question that we're now
asking, okay, we have found that,
well if we take the Planck constant to 0,
or
if we consider the wave lengths which
are much smaller than everything else,
we must extract the minimum of the
classical action from the path integral.
And this minimum would occur on
a particular trajectory that particle
would follow.
So how to find this special trajectory?
So we can sort of motivate the standard,
what is known as variational analysis by
this, again,
simple analogy using the usual function.
So suppose we have
an arbitrary function f(x),
which has a minimum or
maximum principal too, somewhere.
But let's assume it's a minimum.
And we want to determine the point
where this minimum actually occurs.
And for this I can again use
the Taylor expansion for
this function f in the vicinity of this
point, x0 that I'm trying to find.
And so it's going to have the value of
the function at x0, the first derivative,
the second derivative, etc.
And the minimum of this functions,
if I have functions, so
this minimum is going to
occur where this derivative,
where the tangent to this plot,
f(x), as a function of x is
going to be horizontal to the x direction
or the first derivative vanishes.
Now an analogy to this if we
have now a function of or
in particular our action as a fact.
So to determine a particular trajectory
which we will identify as a classical
trajectory.
So we have to demand that if we calculate
this action in the vicinity of this
classical trajectory for which the action
is minimal, the first sort of variation of
the analogy, well the analogous part to
this first derivative is going to vanish.
And this symbol, delta S = 0.
So this equation is a sort of
mathematical expression for
this principle of the list action.
And in some sense, all of classical
physics is contained in this equation,
which is actually quite remarkable.
Now if we now go back to, well, and recall
the particular action we are studying now,
which is just the kinetic energy,
mv squared/2- the potential energy for
a certain quantum particle.
So in order to find the classical
trajectory, as we know,
we want to calculate the first variation,
and we do so by writing this
action in the vicinity of the classical
trajectory that we want to find.
So in some sense, what we should
think about is that we have this
initial point and
we have this final point, and
there is some unique trajectory
that we are looking for.
But there're also trajectory
very close to it.
And this deviation from this, so
this black trajectory here is
the classical trajectory and
the red ones are classical plus dr.
And this dr is a small deviation
from the classical path.
So if we now just simply plug this
expression into this expression for
the action, so we are going to have
the kinetic energy through, so
of course the velocity is just dr/dt, or
abbreviated, we can write it as r dot.
So we're going to have here the two terms.
And we're going to have two terms as
an argument of the potential energy.
And since dr is very small, we're going to
keep track only of the linear terms here.
So for example,
in the kinetic energy part, so
here we're going to have m/2
plus equal velocity squared,
plus the linear term,
which comes from 2r.dr.
So we're going to have m r
plus equal dot plus dr dot.
And this guy, what we're going to do,
we're going to expand this function
in Taylor series up to linear order.
And again, we can do that
because this dr is very small.
And so we're going to have the classical
V of r classical minus dv/dr,
the gradient, dot dr.
And everything integrated over time.
So we have four terms here.
So this term is simple enough.
And these two terms actually, this guy and
this guy, together, they represent
the classical action, so the one which
occurs on the classical trajectory.
Remember, what we want is not
the classical action itself.
But in some sense
the derivative of the action,
basically with something which
is proportional to this dr.
The only term which is sort of
non trivial is this guy, okay?
And it can be further simplified
by using the integration by parts.
So just to remind you, I'm sure you have,
many of you have seen it before.
So if we have an integral,
let's say from a to b,
of a function f with terms g'dx,
so we can write it as
derivative of everything of g'- f'g.
And so here, I have the full derivative,
and I can basically calculate
the value of the functions.
And the limits essentially move
the derivative from the function g to
the function f.
Now in our case, the role of
the function g is played by this dr dot,
and the role of the function
f is played by this mr dot.
So we want to move the derivative
over time from here to here.
But this full derivative term,
so if we're going to calculate
the values of this function dr
in the endpoints at time 0 and
time t, they correspond to
the endpoints of this trajectory.
So in our trajectory remember spinned, so
we have to go from the prescribed
initial point to prescribed final point.
So there is no freedom for
this sort of fluctuation to deviate
from these initial and final points.
It can only deviate from
the classical trajectory in between.
So what I'm saying here is that this term,
the full derivative term in this
particular case vanishes, and
we can simply move the derivative
from here to here with a minus sign.
If we put everything together based
on this discussion, so essentially,
if we integrate by parts and replace this
and this term with classical action.
We're going to have this classical
action minus because there
isn't going to be minus here and
there is already minus here,
integral from 0 to r,
m r two dots, second derivative,
because we moved it, plus dv/dr.
And everything is multiplied
by this thing, dt.
Now remember,
this is exactly our first derivation, and
this is something we want to set to 0.
And this guy must be equal to 0 for
every possible sort of fluctuation
away from the classical trajectory.
And this implies that this
expression in the curly brackets, so
this expression must be
identically equal to 0 for
the first variation to vanish for us to
be able to find the minimal reaction.
And if we're actually going to write it,
we're going to get m r two
dots is equal to -dv/dr.
Well, the second derivative for the
coordinate is known as the acceleration,
so the left hand side is simply m times a,
and the right hand side
is the gradient of the potential energy,
which is the force acting on the particle.
So we see that we indeed have derived the,
Newton second law from the principle
of the action being minimal.
This principle itself followed from
us taking the formal limit of h
bar going to 0, from setting to 0
the wavelengths of our particles.